# TestingBatch
title: It’s used to change the title text displayed on top of CMD window.  echo – Displays the input string as the output. Use ON or OFF option for ECHO to turn the echoing feature on or off. If you turn on the ECHO, the CMD will display the command it is executing.  pause – Used to stop the execution of a Windows batch file.  EXIT – To exit the Command Prompt.  cls – Used to clear the command prompt screen.  :: – Add a comment in the batch file. The Command Prompt ignores any text written as a batch file comment.  So, these were what we can call internal commands which are shipped with Windows. Your batch script can also support external commands. These are ones added when a new software is installed on your system. For example, if you have Google Chrome installed on your machine, you can use the command ‘chrome’ in the CMD window.  These commands can help you to create a simple BAT file. You can improve your batch script by learning more commands from the Windows CMD Commands list.  How to create a batch file in Windows 10? Here, I am going to tell you steps to create a small batch (BAT) file. The steps are almost the same no matter you’re using Windows 10, Windows 8.1, Windows 7 or even XP.  Open a new Notepad file. You can also use any similar text file editor, like Notepad++. Type the following commands in the text file: batch-file-txt2 echo off title My Test Batch File :: See the title at the top. And this comment will not appear in the command prompt. echo Test file executed. echo I am too lazy to write commands again and again. pause Save the text file with the extension .bat instead of .txt. For instance, testbatch.bat in my case. Note: Make sure the Hide File Extensions feature is turned off in Windows. Otherwise, you will not be able to change the file extension. To check, go to Control Panel > File Explorer Options > View tab > Uncheck Hide extensions for known file types. To Run the batch file, simply double-click it. The CMD Window will open automatically with the desired output. You can also try echo on in the command mentioned in Step 2 to see what it does. Now, every time you’ll run this file the same text will be displayed. You can also use the .cmd extension in place of .bat extension.     How to run a batch file in Windows 10? In addition to doubling-clicking, you can execute a bat file from within the CMD window.  To open a file using cmd, you need to navigate the folder/directory where the file is located. Then type the name of that file along with its file extension. For instance, you need to run a bat file named HelloWorld. Type HelloWorld.bat and press Enter.  How to edit or modify a batch file? If you want to do some experimentation with the batch file you created in the past, editing a bat file is a simple process. Just right-click the file and click on rename. It’ll open in the text editor.  After you’re done, save changes and you’re good to go. Next time you run the bat file in the command line, it will execute the changes you have made.  Do something more – batch file examples Some time ago, I told you about checking the battery health on your Windows machine by using the POWERCFG utility. Earlier, you had to do a lot of work. In order to check the battery health, you had to open CMD, type the command, and then go to the location where the output file gets stored.     Let’s give some rest to your hands by creating a batch file and automate the task.  Create a batch to generate Energy Report: In a new text file, type the following command:  powercfg/energy C:\WINDOWS\system32\energy-report.html Save the file as energyreport.bat or any name you like. Keep in mind you use the correct file extension.  Create batch file to generate Battery Report: In a new text file, type the following commands:  powercfg /batteryreport C:\Windows\System32\battery-report.html Save the file as batteryreport.bat or any name you like.  Important: The POWERCFG utility only works with administrator privileges. So, you will have to run these batch files in “Run As Administrator” mode. You do so by Right Clicking the batch file > Click Run As Administrator.  If you run these battery checking batch files without administrator privileges, it will show you version of the report which is already stored at that location. Using batch files with admin rights will display the latest data.
